apps/docs-site/src/content/docs/how-to-guides/contributing.mdx, before:

---
title: Contributing
---

nx-sonarqube is an MIT-licensed open source project with its ongoing development made by contributors.

## Setup Repository

### Fork

Follow GitHub's [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/contributing-to-a-project#cloning-a-fork)
on cloning a fork and creating a branch to work on

### Dependencies

nx-sonarqube uses [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) to manage its dependencies.

Before opening a pull request, run the following command from the root workspace folder to make sure your development dependencies are up-to-date:

```shell
npm ci
```

## Contributing to the plugin

### Folder structure

Source code for the nx-sonarqube plugin exists under the `packages/nx-sonarqube` folder. To contribute features or bug fixes to the framework, locate the relevant code in one of the `packages/nx-sonarqube` sub-folders.

### Running locally

Run the following to serve the plugin and link the package to another consuming Nx workspace:

#### nx-sonarqube Workspace

Terminal one:

```shell
npx nx build nx-sonarqube --watch
```

Terminal two:

```shell
cd dist/packages/nx-sonarqube
npm link
```

#### Consuming Nx Workspace

```shell
npm link @koliveira15/nx-sonarqube
```

### Commands

#### Build

nx-sonarqube uses [Nx](https://nx.dev) for builds. To build the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx build nx-sonarqube
```

#### Unit Testing

nx-sonarqube uses [Jest](https://jestjs.io) for tests. To test the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx test nx-sonarqube
```

#### Linting

nx-sonarqube uses [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) for linting. To lint the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx lint nx-sonarqube
```

#### E2E Testing

To e2e test the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx e2e nx-sonarqube-e2e
```

## Contributing to the documentation and nx-sonarqube.dev website

The documentation site is built using:

- [Astro](https://docs.astro.build/en/getting-started/) - Web framework for content-drive websites
- [Starlight](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started/) - Astro plugin for documentation sites
- [Diátaxis](https://diataxis.fr/) - Methodology for documentation authoring

### Folder structure

Source code for the nx-sonarqube docs and the nx-sonarqube.dev website exists under the `apps/docs-site` project folder.
To contribute documentation or website content, locate the relevant source code in one of the sub-folders:

- `src/assets` - Images and other static assets
- `src/content` - Documentation pages with Astro MDX support
- `src/data` - static data file used in examples
- `src/styles` - CSS themes

### Running locally

Run the following command from the root of the workspace serve the website:

```shell
npx nx serve docs-site
```

### Commands

#### Build

To build the website locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx build docs-site
```

#### Running static website locally

To run the generated static website locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx http-server dist/apps/docs-site
```

## Submission

### Pull Requests

- Rebase your branch against the current `main`.
- Follow the [Setup Repository](#setup-repository) steps above to make sure your forked development environment is up-to-date
- Please ensure the test suite passes before submitting a PR.
- If you've added new functionality, **please** include tests which validate its behavior.
- Make reference to possible [issues](https://github.com/koliveira15/nx-sonarqube/issues) on PR comment.
- PRs may include multiple commits. However, please keep content of all commits related. Raise separate PRs for disjoint changes.

### Bug Reports

- Search through [issues](https://github.com/koliveira15/nx-sonarqube/issues) or [PRs](https://github.com/koliveira15/nx-sonarqube/pulls) to see if a previous issue has already been reported and/or fixed.
- Provide a _small_ reproduction using a GitHub repository.
- Use the Bug issue template to open issues

### New Features

- We value keeping the API surface small and concise, which factors into whether new features are accepted.
- The feature will be discussed and considered.
- Once the PR is submitted, it will be reviewed and merged once approved.

## Commit message guidelines

This repository uses the [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) standards. Your
commit will not pass pre-commit hooks if it's not followed.

## Questions and requests for support

Questions and requests for support should not be opened as issues and should be handled in the following ways:

- Start a new [Q&A Discussion](https://github.com/koliveira15/nx-sonarqube/discussions) on GitHub.

Commit message:

feat: Migrate repo name to nx-sonar
migrate package name to nx-sonar
cleanup linting

apps/docs-site/src/content/docs/how-to-guides/contributing.mdx, after:

---
title: Contributing
---

nx-sonar is an MIT-licensed open source project with its ongoing development made by contributors.

## Setup Repository

### Fork

Follow GitHub's [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/contributing-to-a-project#cloning-a-fork)
on cloning a fork and creating a branch to work on

### Dependencies

nx-sonar uses [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) to manage its dependencies.

Before opening a pull request, run the following command from the root workspace folder to make sure your development dependencies are up-to-date:

```shell
npm ci
```

## Contributing to the plugin

### Folder structure

Source code for the nx-sonar plugin exists under the `packages/nx-sonar` folder. To contribute features or bug fixes to the framework, locate the relevant code in one of the `packages/nx-sonar` sub-folders.

### Running locally

Run the following to serve the plugin and link the package to another consuming Nx workspace:

#### nx-sonar Workspace

Terminal one:

```shell
npx nx build nx-sonar --watch
```

Terminal two:

```shell
cd dist/packages/nx-sonar
npm link
```

#### Consuming Nx Workspace

```shell
npm link @gcko/nx-sonar
```

### Commands

#### Build

nx-sonar uses [Nx](https://nx.dev) for builds. To build the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx build nx-sonar
```

#### Unit Testing

nx-sonar uses [Jest](https://jestjs.io) for tests. To test the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx test nx-sonar
```

#### Linting

nx-sonar uses [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) for linting. To lint the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx lint nx-sonar
```

#### E2E Testing

To e2e test the plugin locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx e2e nx-sonar-e2e
```

## Contributing to the documentation and nx-sonarqube.dev website

The documentation site is built using:

- [Astro](https://docs.astro.build/en/getting-started/) - Web framework for content-drive websites
- [Starlight](https://starlight.astro.build/getting-started/) - Astro plugin for documentation sites
- [Diátaxis](https://diataxis.fr/) - Methodology for documentation authoring

### Folder structure

Source code for the nx-sonar docs and the nx-sonarqube.dev website exists under the `apps/docs-site` project folder.
To contribute documentation or website content, locate the relevant source code in one of the sub-folders:

- `src/assets` - Images and other static assets
- `src/content` - Documentation pages with Astro MDX support
- `src/data` - static data file used in examples
- `src/styles` - CSS themes

### Running locally

Run the following command from the root of the workspace serve the website:

```shell
npx nx serve docs-site
```

### Commands

#### Build

To build the website locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx nx build docs-site
```

#### Running static website locally

To run the generated static website locally, run the following command from the root folder:

```shell
npx http-server dist/apps/docs-site
```

## Submission

### Pull Requests

- Rebase your branch against the current `main`.
- Follow the [Setup Repository](#setup-repository) steps above to make sure your forked development environment is up-to-date
- Please ensure the test suite passes before submitting a PR.
- If you've added new functionality, **please** include tests which validate its behavior.
- Make reference to possible [issues](https://github.com/gcko/nx-sonar/issues) on PR comment.
- PRs may include multiple commits. However, please keep content of all commits related. Raise separate PRs for disjoint changes.

### Bug Reports

- Search through [issues](https://github.com/gcko/nx-sonar/issues) or [PRs](https://github.com/gcko/nx-sonar/pulls) to see if a previous issue has already been reported and/or fixed.
- Provide a _small_ reproduction using a GitHub repository.
- Use the Bug issue template to open issues

### New Features

- We value keeping the API surface small and concise, which factors into whether new features are accepted.
- The feature will be discussed and considered.
- Once the PR is submitted, it will be reviewed and merged once approved.

## Commit message guidelines

This repository uses the [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) standards. Your
commit will not pass pre-commit hooks if it's not followed.

## Questions and requests for support

Questions and requests for support should not be opened as issues and should be handled in the following ways:

- Start a new [Q&A Discussion](https://github.com/gcko/nx-sonar/discussions) on GitHub.
